How to set up artificial sand plant?
Artificial sand, also called crushed sand or mechanical sand, refers to rocks, mine tailings, or industrial waste granules with a particle size of less than 4.75 mm. It is processed by mechanical crushing and sieving.

In China, the artificial sand was mainly used in the construction of hydropower systems. For example, the Three Gorges Project and the Yellow River Xiaolangdi Project used artificial sand to prepare concrete. Due to the remote environment of the hydropower project and the high quality of sand and gravel, the projects have taken the materials locally.

Many Indian states have decreed the use of crushed sand in infrastructure construction because of its high compressive strength and cohesion and the adverse environmental effects of river sand mining, which will greatly boost the demand for artificial sand.

Artificial sand is a better substitute for river sand, this article about artificial sand making process that can help you to know nore about sand plant. Be the first to comment and start the conversation.
-Sand Plant

The artificial sand produced by proper machines can be a better substitute to river sand. The sand should be sharp, clean and course. The grains should be of durable material. The high standard artificial sand can be produced by artificial sand making machine in India.

Artificial Sand Making Machine in India

So the process of manufacturing sand should produce cubical particles. Flaky particles increases voids over cubical or spherical particles about 5 to 6 percent more, and reduces the strength of concrete. Sand maker principle is used for crushing bigger particles, for shaping the crushed metal (giving better shape of the particle) and for crushing fines aggregates below 4.75 mm. It is best machine for making sand from stone. Sand manufactured by Vertical Shaft Impactor is of cubical shape. Such sand can be used for all types of construction work, Concreting, plastering etc. and is better substitute to river sand. V.S.I. Crushers is a most economical machine for Crushing Stone in Cubical shape and manufacturing artificial sand.

In this machine the particles are thrown at a high speed, those particles colloid with each other and shatter in cubical particles. A Anvil ring, Shelf ring (pigeon hole ring) are provided to get the particles edges grounded. The wear cost is a very important criteria in crushing process. Wear cost of other crushing machines such as Roll crushers, Cone crushers, H.S.I. is very high compared to V.S.I. Crushers. It is about four to five times more that of VSI crusher.

The stone particles having kinetic energy when it strikes on crushing chamber brakes into small cubical particles. Crushed particles comes out from the outlet at the bottom of the machine. The designs of the Rotor of these machines are very special. The wear parts of these rotors are made from highly abrasive resistance material. autogenious Stone Lining is form as per the locus of stone moving in the rotor. This arrangement avoids the contact of stone particles with soft material of the rotor. On all points where such contact is unavoidable a hard material lining is made. The material of the lining is selected to reduce the wear and tear cost.

There are different types of sand making machines, depending on the nature of the work being performed.

Artificial sand plant process

The artificial sand plant mainly consists of vibrator feeder, jaw crusher, sand making machine, vibrating screen and tape transmission machine, etc.

The plants have a close relationship with the customer's EPC schedule, working hours, and site environment. The design scheme of the project is adapted to local conditions. After the design, the entire system will be actually deployed on site to ensure its rationality and economy.

The design of the entire process layout is compact and reasonable, and the floor space is small. The operation is simple, and the equipment configuration is flexible. It can not only serve the single machine, but also use the crushing and screening equipment together to improve the crushing efficiency.

In conclusion, by adopting advanced technology, artificial sand can be produced at an economical cost and help save the environment in the process. It is an alternative to river sand that helps reduce sand mining and preserve natural resources.